Fatima pointed out to me something uh on page number 10 brother and
sisters at the end of the page the question
is do you see that brother and
sisters what is the meaning of anduh and were means and okay you know that Arabic
language you can put it into three groups so what is V is it a noun is it a verb what is
it what I didn't say was particle so it's a particle are you with me it is we
call it so remember but you do not have to memorize now I'm only pointing out to
you later on I will be read repeating it over and over and inshah you will you will get into your uh you know memory so
V means and in English we call it conjunction and in Arabic we call it
huh okay as I said you can write it down but you don't have to really memorize it
uhuh wall is wall is
okay in English we call it conjunction we say
huh Ma is a is man is also is man is also is slowly
slowly we will get into it uh if if I say something and if you can write it good enough uh but don't uh you
know sit down to memorize it it will come to us in the course of our class s
is is huh is huh which means noun okay and
see everything is there in the handout sistera if it is D which is pronoun then
if it is adjective it is not and if it is adverb it is zarf but again as I said
when we move slowly slowly ahead they will become you will become very familiar with them
inshallah so you got that done and
uh now we come to to brother what
is this this more than that it's a pronoun what kind of a pronoun demonstrative pronoun and what do we
call in Arabic is is again as I said don't get uh like uh stressed that I
have to memorize it no I will be repeating it and saying to you isara after a little while you will know it is
okay now what is the difference between this and that uhuh this you use for pointing out
things which are closer to you and that you say for far things
so both are pronouns demonstrative pronouns in uh in Arabic we'll say
for something that is closer
and huh very simple very simple okay
so what did I say so when I have to point out
something which is far you just use ready brother the question ma is same
huh what is the meaning brother what is that what is that now we are talking about
that that is that is a
star which is closer to us what is the meaning
of and that is a house
this is a horse are you with me
brother now we are want to ask a question so we are bringing Hamza in
front that is a cat
okay now we come to human being and we
say who is this and who is that what is the
answer Imam the one who leads us in the prayers okay
brother look at the Vel signs brother and try to inshah understand when memorize it what is the meaning
of a big rock you know look at the SH
onf now brother okay this is an Arabic word the in English we say sugar but it
has been derived from sugar is dried from
fukar sugar is Dri from suar are you with me
Brothers now again the same thing Dr abim thinks you know all the vowel signs
no more vowel signs but you will write down s you'll
say whenever there is a Shada uh give Justice to Shada and pronounce it
properly okay so now now you see if I write down to
you how will you pronounce I did not put vowel sign how do you know it is
K because it will come to in your mind so when you see this
it will come to your mind that it is so every letter in
Arabic every word in Arabic inshah slowly slowly your mind you know will
retain it and you will inshallah find it easy brothers and sisters those who know U when you read Udu are there any vowel
signs all ask somebody else who doesn't know Udu to come and read Udu paper they'll get lost but you don't get lost
why because your mind can identify without the vowel signs and inshallah same thing will happen to us but it will
be a slow process and it will be easier if you put an effort into it
inshallah so brother the first was
this is a sugar and that is a milk next one
brother who is that IM see now you are writing Mo
automatically it's not there but you said Imam and we will say inshah
there's a not but okay
brother okay brother and sisters IM
do you see that coming are you with me uh D Coming can you see okay brother
and sisters because this is intensive course and because we expect you to go home and
sit down and do your homework huh okay okay inshah we will move at a speed because we want to
finish this in 7 months okay now we come to lesson number three little bit we already did what is
definite noun and what is indefinite noun yes brother new new
words huh new words new words huh okay okay so what do
you see B lesson number
three what is the meaning of a house indefinite make it
definite got the idea fine Brother a
book fine Brother a
pen the pen a camel
ALU the camel now we come to what is the meaning
now tell me translate brothers and sisters
say it loudly the pen what did you say the pen huh you started the sentence
with the pen the pen is broken you started with the huh okay
now uh we go to page number four in your handout keep your handouts open brother and sisters we are all adults here
inshallah you will understand very well huh what we are covering in one session brother and sisters it will take two
three sessions in the weekly course you know okay what is
sentence when you say a sentence in in Arabic we'll say Al
aluh the sentence or a sentence J okay what is the meaning of sentence
brother what is the meaning of it sentence is a group of words which make complete
sense brother if it does not a group of words which does not make complete sense
then it is not a sentence then we can call it a phrase uh okay we call it a phrase uh so
here we are concerned with sentence okay now brother and sisters
in Arabic language there are two kinds of sentences how many kinds two kind two
kinds one is called and other is
called Remember f means verb f
f means ver are you with me brother and
sisters Fon means ver okay so it's very
simple what do we call in English nominal sentence will begin with a
noun and a J in English verbal sentence will begin
with a verb okay fine easy very easy as I promised you it's all Hal Puri brother okay but
but we will have to be prepared for some hard chickpeas also okay brother if it is a sentence be
it a nominal or verbal be it a
or what are we looking into it what are we looking into it
brother you see my Approach is that I I tell you all these things in the beginning so that slowly slowly you are
getting stronger and at the same time I tell you not to worry if you uh forget
or if you do not understand completely don't worry it will come to you if you'll come to the class things will be repeated and you will learn more about
it inshah but let's talk about in English a nominal sentence has two
parts it's broken into two section section number one
subject what is section number two predicate huh subject is a noun that we
are talking about and predicate is an statement about the noun
it gives a little more detail what do we call subject in uh
Arabic huh so you are going to learn that thing but if you do not return today don't worry it will come to you
slowly subject in Arabic is called subject in Arabic is called
Al H Al or you can simply say m what will you
ay m those who know for them it's very easy because they
use things with which you begin something what is the meaning of M the thing which begins with okay something
that is used to begin something M okay subject and what
is uh called uh predicate in Arabic very
simple Al or you'll
say are you with me means
news what is the meaning ofab news uh but as I said brother in English we
have subject and predicate are you with me but in Arabic we have
M andab are you with me brother subject predicate subject means
M predicate means every sentence if it is a j are you with
me every sentence if it is a jum we'll have these two parts there
will be a subject and there will be a predicate now in the beginning we are dealing with simple
sentences as we go deeper and deeper then we'll be learning lot more things will get a little complicated but
brother and sisters I have experienced something the more the complicate a thing becomes
more interesting it becomes uh it's it becomes very interesting because then you know Arabic is like mathematics in
algebra like a science everything is scientific in Arabic brother it Arabic
is such a beautiful language and it's easy to learn remember my word it's easy
to learn and I will prove it to you uh but you got to work hard if you don't work hard then you'll find it very
difficult but if you work hard it's very easy very enjoyable brother very enjoyable okay so we are going
to learn more about nominal sentence nominal sentence has two parts are you
with me brother and one is subject and one is predicate and in Arabic we'll say
it has mup and it has got fine brother I ask you something can you form
a simple sentence in English sister Salma form any simple
sentence what did you say this is a pen now I
think what will you say Al what will you say Al
J same thing here or if it is an old book what will
you say but remember you always started with
Al this is what I want to point out if you make a simple English sentence you'll always begin with
the we have never thought about it but now you can think about it huh you will
always say the car is beautiful the car is new the house is big H the boy is
intelligent the girl you always the girl is beautiful huh okay uh the the the the
chair is new the chair is broken the house is broken you'll always start
with what did you start with D it means you started with a definite now so
it means subject is always definite definite it means M will be always
definite are you with me m will be most of the time it is definite uh there sometimes
it will be indefinite but most of the time it will be definite uh and then brother what about
the will be most of the time time indefinite huh the house is new huh now
mind you when you say new it is an adjective so you won't say ah in it
because it's an adjective but if I say muhammadun Muhammad is a doctor so what
will you say muhamad soib is a indefinite are you
with me if I say Muhammad is a student what will you say Muhammad Talib did you
see Talib Muhammad is definite but Talib is indefinite are you with me brother
and sisters now more example
brother are you with me b a house but ha okay actually it is definite we are
not going to go in detail now but later on we will explain you that even haa is a definite because when you point out to
something it is something particular huh but we'll go in detail later on pardon me if I sometimes go in
some details but don't worry whatever you can retain in your mind you retain it now I come to the conclusion brother
the M will be most of the time definite and the will be indefinite rule
number one sister Salma rule number two are you everybody listening brother and
sisters will always beu are you with me m will always
beu what is the meaning of that it will end with a D see now we are
coming right away we are coming to what we were uh trying to say in the beginning that
noun can be can be man and can be Maj are you
with me sister Naima noun declines are you with me sisters noun declines it can
be Maru it can be or it can be ma now as I said we want to
know why they are and and Ma so if it is
a it will always be got the idea of that if it is
a it will always be and if it is
news then also it will always be Maru I repeat again
huh nominal sentence has two parts what are they sister
NAA subject and predicate I'm using English so that you don't get garfied
okay use English also but by the time you are in book to you you have everything in your mind inshallah
inshallah then you will love to say Arabic terms you know so sisters jumla is nominal sentence has
two parts one is subject and other is
predicate in Arabic one is and other is now I'm telling you the subject is
[Music]
always means it will end in a dhama and the predicate will always
beu are you with me predicate will always be sister Fatima is it clear brother and sisters if you don't
understand ask me I will repeat as many times that is necessary to to make it very clear to you huh sister FAA ask me
if you don't understand anything huh okay brother same applies to you I'm not
doing a special favors brothers and sisters are all equal to me yes sister Salma question is
not definite but is a yes remember when the noun is definite or indefinite
doesn't matter but if it ends with a dama then it
is is Maru okay are is it to you now now in a
imple sentence see I approach this way in other classes they they just
translate and I I feel if I start slowly slowly now with you these rules let it
take time by the time you are in book two you are very comfortable you are enjoying everything because everything
is making sense to you if I don't do this brother and that this is what happened to me when I did not understand
when we went to book two and when were they were talking about all these things Brothers I I was really lost it took me
lot of time to get to understand the rules so I do it slowly slowly from the beginning one more time I'll repeat a
nominal sentence jum has two parts one is
subject the other is predicate one is M and the other is every time we look into
the nominal sentence we look for that we will look for thatuh and the M or the
subject is always and the is
[Music]
always this is rule number uh very important grammar rule brother when we go deeper
and deeper things will come in different colors are you with me they'll come in different colors but by that time your
mind will be in a state you will be able to understand it inshah okay because right now we are dealing with simple
simple sentences in which it is very simple and easy to
identify and and you will see ISU and the is and if there are no vowel signs
we will still make it brother Muhammad okay so brother and sisters here we
come what did I say
is yes is yes okay both areu
the pen is broken are you with me okay brother and sister what is
ALU yes is broken is broken no when I say
what is ALU and if you say the pen then I'll tell you I know that but I want
little more now it is a subject what is it now we are going in little detail what
is Al are you with me what is where is the what about the pen tell
me more about the pen where is the it's broken are you with me so
and and sister FAA are you with me Brothers sister faran is it clear
brother inshah huh brother you too what's your name brother far far Faruk mashah M brother is it clear if you
don't understand ask me fine next sentence
brother what is the translation of alabu the door what did you say the door
definite you use that huh okay and what is it now what is the news open is open
huh okay now we go in Arabic alabu what is alabu what
is the news are you with me is it clear brother inshah you will go
home and you will concentrate on it and tomorrow when we meet we will still be
repeating these things I'll briefly revise everything inshallah we won't go for further in Lesson Four no no no we
will go slowly slowly brother Al The Boy The Boy what it can be it
started the sentence it's Maru it is started the sentence so it has to
beu and more than that it's m the sentence begins with a noun so it is a
nominal sentence J isuh but today this thing is new to
you but I assure you in few days you will tell me I feel I knew this from my
childhood I knew these things from the very beginning are you with me it will become very easy to you uh today is the first day but it seems you are all
understanding well but tomorrow we are going to repeat these things again okay Al the boy that is our mu
what is the news translate it the boy is sitting huh so he's
sitting is sitting is the news very good
brother and is where is
the standing are you with me so here we have got simple sentences and we are
easily identifying the words in it one is other
is and also are you with
me but once now this is only the basic we got to learn lot more but once all these things are there then when you
will read Quran inshallah it will come to you in different colors you will understand things that you never
understood before inah okay next okay now
brother what is it okay so what is
Al is always and then J see it has Gotan indefinite okay now
brother we going to I must tell you something else see how farsighted and clever Dr
abdurahim is if he says J the next word has opposite of it what is
it so it makes it easy for us to learn new words okay brother okay
then what is the opposite of so it's easy for us to memorize are you with me brother how clever Dr abim
is he's choosing words in a way that makes it very easy for us to understand
and also to memorize here we are brother and sisters
okay is the are you with me the translation is the book is
new and the pen and the
penuh and the pen that is your huh next
one the donkey is small and the horse is big
what is the translation the chair is broken now analyze it in a simple
way and okay very
good the handkerchief is dirty huh now these are the vocabs you have to you do
it at home put put an effort uh and memorize it brother so same
thing where is the are you with me okay next one
brother do you see the is indefinite all the time indefinite
coming the water the water you said the water remember it I'm just pointing out to you that m is
always definite huh definite andu of
course the water is cold
okay the Moon is beautiful Andover okay
the house is near and what is the opposite of and the is far
are the rock the stone huh heavy heavy okay and what is
the opposite of light so see brother very easy to
memorize so it's very easy brother very
good the the rock is heavy what
is the page a paper huh okay light
okay because the sh is on ra so you got to pronounce it
properly where is the is your fine
Al meaning what is the meaning Al the shirt what about it give the
news it's clean so what is Al where is
the brother tell me isn't it easy I hope you will find it easy if not today
sister Salma tomorrow definitely inshah because we will be repeating these things inshah are you with me brother
and sisters I'm not okay I'll go one more exercise because I want you to do on your own this
exercise brother means you know put the proper
vowel signs at the end H okay it's not given now you got to tell me very
loudly mashah and Al alhamdulillah alhamdulillah
Al next
[Music]
one got to be careful brother if you if you if you say Al I
got a very weak heart I'll get heart attack it has to be
Al okay and then
Al Al mashah so you you are understanding
definite and indefinite huh with Al single are you with me now brother and sister you got to write all these things this
is so lot of homework I hope you will find time I know you got
lot of responsibilities you have children husband businesses do as much as you can brother
insh okay now brother we go back to page number one we go to page number one okay
number one number one what is the first sentence
brother I want you to analyze it is it a j yes brother that is that goes without
saying because we haven't come across jumla faia and it will come later on so all
are jum what are you looking for S Sal and we are only looking for these
two things okay so when you say where is is
your and remember it is definite it is definite because when you say ha you are
pointing out to something particular so it is definite in fact let me tell you a
rule are you listening are you listening all pronouns what did I
say all pronouns are definite all pronouns are
definite because the pronoun replaces noun we will learn more about pronouns
inshah in 2 three days a lot we will learn okay so ha is the pronoun and
pronouns are all definite huh okay by their nature they are all
definite okay F so is definite because we know has to
be definite most of the time in the Quran we will learn the sentences in which m is
indefinite and you will be amazed you will love it when we will go through some of the sentences in the Quran and
it will Amaze you brother now you'll feel that thing in your heart you know insh okay what is
I know this what is where is
the but I told you this is all Hal now do you believe me this is all Hal okay
what is where is fine
is so all these are simple senten they are nominal sentences they are JLA
is and they are and these are all simple but be prepared to come across
some heartshake piece and then we will be ready to analyze it inshah okay fine
now from now onwards you must understand one thing we will try to analyze every sentence that will come in front of us
if the sentence is a question what did I say brother and sisters if the sentence is a questions
we will not analyze it we won't attempt to analyze it till we go in book three till we go in lesson number 10 in
book three we will not analyze it questions just leave it aside don't even attempt don't make an attempt because it
will confuse you and you will ask me question you will confuse me and and when I try to explain you I will not be
able to remove your confusion so questions we will keep it aside statements we will try to analyze
inshallah and you will find it easy inshallah and I'll work my utmost to
make it easy inshah okay brother we know we know everything we know brother and
sisters okay now we come to brothers and sisters uh okay
you know all these things so if I say what I'm saying are you with me brother and
sisters very good and where are we now I come to
now okay where
is remember is SOA is what isika a pronoun are you with
meika is pronoun and all pronouns are definite definite are you with me
all pronouns are definite okay fine brother it's
easy is easy is easy so brother these are all
very easy I think uh I will go to the page number 15
exercise number two brother and sisters I'll go to exercise number two to you
know uh do it little bit uh we have we'll finish at 12:30 sharp inshallah
maybe 5 minutes early we'll finish no Vel signs brother Dr ABD
thinks you know everything now huh no Vel signs brother Muhammad you got to figure out but you know if it starts
with Al it has to be okay we are still in Maru so you can close your eyes and put
start putting themas there's no problem
there okay yeah so now you got to when you will write The Book You'll write
down write it properly yeah brother write it properly so that we get an idea
okay are you with me what is the meaning of
it cold I want you to go home and memorize the vocabs because we are going
to repeat this tomorrow okay you will always
say you got to say it loudly okay m is open
masah meaning stone is Big what is the
analysis are you with me brother the milk is
cold what is and conjunction huh and what
is the water is hot opposite cold heart fine brother Al
what is the meaning of M engineer it is sitting where
is
okay okay got the idea tell me is it difficult brother no I don't think so
but if you find your not getting 100% grip on it don't worry tomorrow we are
going to revise it huh okay brother and sisters now next one what is given
here can you see the next one what is given here it is the that has been given
so we have to bring a proper M but then we have to bring it from our head it's not mentioned here and M ISU and it is
all also definite are you with me brothers and sisters it is definite
fine something is na something is clean are you with me tell
me so you started with are you with me
Brothers next one is something is broken so you are bringing
now very good something is
cold whatever you want to think
of whatever you can say okay brother something is
far or ALU very good brother somebody's
standing so we put that person in as a
inah somebody's sitting brother who's sitting Al
or are you with me Brothers okay now something is very
big you can say you know when you drive down bayew and you know Lawrence you see all those monster homes you know then
when you are driving you can say this house is a big you
know okay fine brother and sisters something is
old huh yes you can say the man is old yes
yes whatever but it will be with Al because using bringing very good Brothers something is
new the student is
new you can say anything you want you will be able to use simple sentences now brother and you will be able to make
your own sentences huh so brother and
sisters what did I say Nom nominal sentence
has got two parts in English we say subject and predicate in Arabic we
say and they are both always they will
end with d they will end with d and the
m is most of the time definite and most of the time
sometimes it can be definite most most of the time in are you with me brother and sisters now can you see here
muhamad what is what kind of sentence is this what kind of a sentence is this
because this started with Muhammad this is not jum is this is not you know jum isia here okay this is is but we'll
learn later on inshah this is not jum is okay but this is jum muhamad so where is
M it has got tan is it definite indefinite definite why it is definite
because it is a proper noun huh name fine Brother how about
this definite what is this what is this where is the of
this Allah Allah is most forgiving and here I'm not going in detail because in the next lessons we'll
go in detail but Muhammad is the rasool is the messenger are you with me brother and sisters so to wind
up brother in Arabic the nouns decline are you with me the nouns decline they can
end with a dhama or they can end with a fata or they can end with a KAS if they
end with a dama we call it if they end with a f we call it man
if they end with a KAS we call it
huh so in other words it's D
then and then again say loudly say it
loudly now if I say d what will you say to me it's Maru what will you say if I
say then what will you tell me it's mansu if I said
then huh are you with me again I tell you if I said if it is
done if it is then if I say then it
is and if I say it's and when I
say it's ma one more time if I say
it's if I say it's man and if I say then
therefore so that is what it is
[Music]
brother so what I'm saying man and Ma will you remember
this this terminology you should memorize tonight huh because this is how we will be pointing out to the words are
you with me it's easy brother